Hello,

The following submission has been created.

Track Name: ICACSDF2026

Paper ID: 155

Paper Title: Security Risks in Wearable IoT Devices

Abstract:
Wearable IoT (Internet of Things) devices are now being implemented in the health care sector and personal lifestyle control, i.e., smartwatches and fitness bands, and medical sensor monitors. These devices are also recording, analyzing, and transferring sensitive data of users like biometric, physiological and location data on a continuous basis. Whichever the benefits they offer wearable objects built around the IoT also have high security and privacy concerns due to the small processing capabilities, the necessity to use wireless connections, and lack of all-encompassing security. The paper will evaluate the security risk of wearable IoT devices, the most common vulnerabilities and attack vectors, and the security measures that have been implemented. A qualitative and analytical approach is adopted in the study that is founded on the recent scholarly articles, technical reports, and case studies. The study demonstrates that wearable IoT devices are especially vulnerable to interception of data, unauthorized access, and poor authentication. Lightweight encryption, secure pairing, and periodic updates of firmware are very useful to reduce potential risks Lightweight and efficient security setups should be included to create secure wearable IoT ecosystems.

Created on: Wed, 06 May 2026 06:23:00 GMT

Last Modified: Wed, 06 May 2026 06:23:00 GMT

Authors:
     - anshu.singla@chitkara.edu.in (Primary)
     - apoorva1327.be22@chitkara.edu.in
     - nandni1960.be22@chitkara.edu.in

Primary Subject Area: Internet of Things (IoT) Security - IoT device security and firmware security

Secondary Subject Areas: 
    Internet of Things (IoT) Security - IoT security standards and ecosystem protection
    Internet of Things (IoT) Security - Threat detection in IoT and critical infrastructure
    Privacy and Information Security - Authentication and authorization of users, systems, and applications

Submission Files: 
    Security Risks in Wearable IoT Devices Submitted.pdf (449 Kb, Wed, 06 May 2026 06:22:47 GMT)

Submission Questions Response: Not Entered

Thanks,
CMT team.


Please do not reply to this email as it was generated from an email account that is not monitored.


To stop receiving conference emails, you can check the 'Do not send me conference email' box from your User Profile.

Microsoft respects your privacy. To learn more, please read our Privacy Statement.

Microsoft Corporation
One Microsoft Way
Redmond, WA 98052
